Hello again lovely God people in this video.
We're going to make the guards move.
We did a lot of work getting our pathfinding set up.
Now let's actually create a path and we do that with get simple path.
I've been using the path a lot already in this video so let's just talk about that means when we use
navigation to deepen navigation polygon instance we are going to hell godso to make a simple path the
path just like you might expect is a series of points that the Guard is going to have to walk through
a series of waypoints.
It's just you know the path the Guard is going to walk path is really just an array and that array is
a series of vector twos.
So the first vector two is a starting position.
Then the next position then the next position and then we'll tell the guard just to walk between them.
So let's start that off.
We're going to go into our guards scene and open up the guard script which we've already set up as extending
play the action so we're good to go.
And before any further there's a few variables that I know we're going to need.
The Guard is going to move so we're going to need motion and wants motion is a vector too.
We also are going to need some possible destinations.
Possible destinations is going to be the waypoints we place those position 2D.
And we have initialise that every time we run this script which means.
And why that's awesome is it means when we go into Level 1 and we move our position to d around where
are they.
Do you do.
Here's one.
If I was to move that I don't need to change any code God will just say where are they.
Get that position.
So let's set that up as an empty array.
I'm setting it up as an empty Ray because very early in the script we're going to tell it to do aray
specific things and if it doesn't notice an array won't know how to do that so let's just say you're
an array.
Don't worry that there's nothing in you.
You're just an array.
We're also going to have a path which is also an array and more on the subject we need a destination.
So the path is going to that destination and that this nation is going to be a vector too.
While we're doing this I have a couple of export variables I want to do.
One of them is a walk slow down
walk slow down much of my namor put zero point five and I put it as an export variable so when I save
that we click on a guard we can see it here.
That's because if we look at our scripts.
We're going to character.
Speed is already set and our characters more will get speed.
I want this guard to go at half the speed of the player so the player can out on the guard but maybe
later in the game I want to do things like attack dogs or drones or I don't know toddlers.
Something that goes much faster than the player so that's going to give you the option of changing each
NPC speed and then when I want to speed up or slow down the game I can just come in here and change
everyone's baseline speed.
Finally going to need to ponder a couple of notes I want to click on level 1 on doing this so I can
auto complete.
But this is going to be an on ready
variable.
Why is an unready variable.
Because I'm going to refer to a couple of different nodes inside the ready function so they already
have to be there.
I can't wait for ready to call.
One of them is going to be navigation.
Navigation is this navigation tutino and I could just do gets node and all the rest.
But you know what.
We're now getting to the point where we should make a global script so let's do that really quickly.
Let's go find new and just like we did the hobby days ago make a global scribble a capital G and make
sure it's in the script holder.
And I'm going get a project settings.
I'm going to go to auto load find global.
And add it as a singleton.
Great.
There it is.
Okay.
So we have a couple of variables we have a player and a player in there and we have navigation which
can be small g.
And let's put in.
Destinations.
So before we go any further let's go to play a give player a radio function.
Hang on.
I'm kind of rattling through this.
But are you ready.
Global dot player.
He calls himself great.
We should probably put in a script for navigation to day and four destinations so they can do the same
thing.
So let's do that.
Let's go on to navigation to Judy brandnew script and then just like we did before we go into the scripts
folder and it's navigation to be an animation of this empty ask I say function.
Ready.
Global dot navigation Eagles self.
And one more time for the destinations.
Exactly the same process.
So let's get into our scripts.
Call it destination.
On the ready function.
We're going to go global dot destinations he calls self.
Ok that's going to make things a lot easier.
So a little bit of running around but it's going to make things much much simpler going forward.
I can close that these controlled W on Windows and I don't need some of these.
Great.
And the only place where it gets so navigation is going to be global dot navigation.
I also need the destinations so already variable destinations.
He calls global dot destinations.
While I'm here destinations and destination that's not a great variable thing.
They're both very similar So let's say.
Available destinations.
There we go.
Okay.
We're now good to start putting some functionality and let's do that let's get a function ready.
And the first thing we need to do is fill in this array of possible destinations possible destinations.
What is the possible destinations.
Well if we look over here under navigation Tuesday we have destination destination has all of these
child knows and it could be any one of these.
So what of the dos and the go available destinations dont get children.
And what it's going to do is when it runs the ready function it's going to add all of these children
to that array.
And that is amazing because now I don't have to worry about where they are or how many there are or
if they're in the right order.
God knows you can handle it for me.
The next thing we have to do is make a path and that's going in you function.
So let's make a make path function.
Let's talk very quickly about what is going to happen in my path when the guard wants to make a path.
The Guard is going to look at all the possible Dallas Nations and pick one at random.
The first thing to do is go randomise.
Why am I doing randomise.
Because the way the computers deal with random numbers is they look at the time when the script is first
run and then they create a list based on an algorithm.
If I randomize it it's going to tell it to do that again if I don't every time it runs this script it's
going to come up with the exact same list some needs randomize.
OK.
So we've randomizing and I'm going to make a variable called next destination of place you're going
to annexe.
What is the next destination.
Well it's from the array of possible destinations.
And I'm going to pick a random integer that is modulated by the.
Possible destinations.
Size count the number of children that destination has.
Use that as your maximum level and pick a random number.
We now have a random destination set.
So all we have to do is update path so path equals navigation and we use a function of navigation to
day which is get simple half
What's get simple path get simple path is a built in function of navigation 2D.
Let's take a look at the documentation for its on his classes and type navigation Trudy.
And here get civil path takes a start and end and an optional boolean.
Okay so here is my challenge for you.
I would like you to use the documentation to put the right arguments and get simple path.
In other words we need a start position and an end position.
So pause the video and see if you can figure out what needs to go here.
When you come back I'll show you my solution.
Don't worry if it's a little confusing.
Give it a shot and see wiegand.
Okay what does it need to be or is close this.
And if you say this script Well the start position is where I am right now.
Okay so let's just give me my position the next place is going to be next.
Destination.
Got global position.
And just to be sure let's use my global position because I know I might accidentally move a container
node and that would be embarrassing.
The third one is optional so let's leave it alone for now and that is make path done this.
Everything we need to set up half only that moment.
So let's actually move let's go above make path and when I make a new function and this one is going
to be a process function is going to happen every text and what's going to happen every tick is we're
going to navigate navigate is going to be a function there's going to check.
Do you need to move.
Do I need to wait.
Do I need to make a new path.
Well make path has already set up so that's great.
Let's make the navigate function function and navigate.
And we have two lines between each function.
OK so the navigate function is going to be the thing that checks.
Do we need to move.
Do we need to come up with a new path.
Or do we need to wait.
So in navigate Here's one to do mimic a numeric report.
Distance as in me my distance to the destination in fact we call it distance to destination just make
it really clear what is distance to destination.
Well it's my position not distance to just like angle to really call function distance to what well
is the distance to the next thing in the path.
So let's do path zero and lift-off path correctly.
Now remember path is an array so zero is what it's the offsets.
How many spaces do you have to move along that rate just like we didn't Lomi lips.
Now you might be thinking if we do have zero isn't it always just going to find the first place on the
path.
How do we move onto the next part of the path.
You're right.
However if we look back at this example navigation path we could say okay you've got to start position
zero now going to position 1 position 2.
Or we could use remove position 0 and that means position what becomes the news hero and then we don't
have to update that function at all.
So when we get to actually updating the path which you're going to do in a moment or are we going to
do is remove position 0 and if there's only one thing in the sign in the array we know let's make a
brand new array.
So we also want to make sure that our destination is Path zura.
So that's the basics.
Now it's a loop condition.
If you're not at the destination yet.
If distance is greater than in let's put in another variable as an export variable I wish we call this
navigation stop threshold.
Awful name isn't it.
I spell threshold.
I don't think it is knows which navigation stop threshold was this.
Well I want to make sure that there's some leeway if you're close to the destination.
You can now set the next point.
The reason I'm doing this is in case the guy bumps into something.
Or in case they get there between frames and the like.
Let's give it a margin of error.
Say 5 pixels so if you're within 5 pixels.
So if you're with it if you're if the distance is greater than the navigation stop threshold What are
you going to do.
You're going to move.
And it is not.
So if you are closer than that you're going to update the path.
Now I'm making a lot of these function names up as I go so I'm going to have to go in and fill these
in.
Let's start with what should we start with think moveless.
I mean I like to move it.
I'm so sorry.
Function mode.
What's the move going to be.
Well it's going to change motion because that's what we deal with.
Motion is going to be destination.
So where you're going minus where you are and let's normalize that just make the move with a really
nice smooth and we're going to move by a speed that's going to be the global low.
It's got to be max speed.
There it is multiplied by slowdown what we call that we call it.
Walk slow down there it is.
So what now set motion.
So if you're moving this is your only motion.
So when we need to do now is move and slide motion.
Well that felt good didn't it.
So we have moved done now when you'd update path as part of the path.
Probably under make a path that seems like a sensible place to put it.
To function.
This is going to be update half how k.
Come on then it doesn't crash out and give us some space.
I can see what I'm doing.
OK so what's up take PATH going to be its only path.
Dont remove 0.
Now we don't want to do that every time because we we only have one thing in the path we need to make
a new path.
If we try and remove path 0 and then move along the path we're going to crash.
So we an if statement less do if the path signs it will to one we need to make path.
Else.
Remove the path.
So if there is exactly one entering the path we know we've reached our destination let's make a new
path.
Now what's going to happen here is the Guard is going to go running around the place like a well like
a Pachinko ball ride like a pinball.
So let's put a timer in here.
I'm going to go into my to you view into the guard section and let's make a time and note.
And let's give it a 3 second time and really a signal.
So on time out is going to connect to guard.
Great.
We should have an on timeout function right there.
OK.
If time out which is a child knows a lot more too much but that is stopped.
And that's a built in function of timer.
So I'm fine with it.
So if the time it isn't running run the time is a start isn't it.
Else.
No one elf else.
Make the path.
Well I was to say else.
Make the path not ethnic rip-off else make the path.
Let's just run through on a day because I went through kind of fast there.
When you update the path if you have exactly one entry left which we know it's going to be entry zero
which means you're at your destination is the timer stopped.
If it is stopped start it else.
Make the path it will not get to this elfs or this else.
If the timer is running which is great.
We can now just rely on the time all of the time I have to do make half.
In fact you know what we don't need this one at all do it.
If passes size is one and the timer stopped start the time.
If the timer isn't stopped is not going to do anything it's going to just wait.
That's exactly what we need.
OK.
How we looking we've got o see a changed distance a destination.
And I didn't change his a distance to destination so we have distance to destinations that should be
good.
Okay.
I suspect we're going to have an interesting bug.
Let's press play and find out if this works.
It doesn't.
Now here's why.
Gado is loading things in order and navigation to D is setting its positioning global after the guards
are running their script.
Let's fix that by just moving navigation 2D up to the very top of the level.
So now if I run it again.
We should.
Have some movement.
There's a guard moving he starts.
There he goes again.
A couple of things.
Some of these guys are getting stuck.
This guard is stuck there all stuck right.
And they're not turning.
Well let's change both of those.
Let's go to them move functions and click over here to tomorrow.
And let's do look at destination.
Okay.
So that should solve that problem right now.
We should have guards who do not moonwalk.
He says No way.
He stuck in a corner he's facing the right way.
One more thing.
If you're on a wall you should find something.
No sir.
Let's go back to move.
And right here the form of an slight listed if it is on a wall is on the wall is just like is on floor
and is on ceiling and it's built into kinematic body today.
If you're on the wall make a path.
There goes a guard.
And he's stark and he's made a new path and it's just tweaking around the edge there.
Now I need to make sure that they don't get stuck like that.
They're cutting a lot of corners.
Even with all the tweaks you made so inside this gets simple path let's put in.
False.
That's that third optional thing.
If it's true it's can make nice optimized curves and try and hard corners.
But we don't want that this too many right angles.
Let's see how that works.
And we should now see the guards able to enter and exit rooms nice safely.
Fantastic.
Let me just make sure that the guards are on the right collision map so kaloogian layers right there
that's going to the guard scene.
And what's your collision.
You're not that at all.
OK.
You think you're a player in a lot of play such as going to project settings in a general down to the
do to do you know down to 2D physics layer.
There it is.
And we need guards.
You are now a brand new layer.
So you are a Guards layer which are spelt wrong and they're wrong that were wrong.
Gee you a not a G you a.
You now guard.
You can see the player.
You can see walls.
You cannot see security cameras.
You cannot see guards.
So now the guards shouldn't be able to use magic x-ray vision to see me through walls this find out.
Can you see me.
No.
But now you can.
No you can't.
Outstanding.
And that brings us to the end of the video.
In this video we've looked at how to get simple path how to move the next point of a path how to make
pathfinding work.
We've also made sure that the guards move to a new position when they get stuck on a wall and that they're
facing the right direction.
We covered a lot so.
Excellent work.
And I'll see you in the next video.